#+OPTIONS: toc:nil num:nil ^:{}
#+STARTUP: entitiespretty
#+BEGIN_HTML
---
title: Steganography
author: Ashley Gillman
layout: post
tags: Cryptography, Uni Prac
---
#+END_HTML

* Steganography: a Brief Overview
Steganography refers to the practice of embedding or hiding
information into an inconspicuous medium in such a way that it is
difficult or impossible to be seen without knowing the correct
extraction technique \cite{johnson1998exploring}. /Steganography/
comes from the Greek $\sigma\tau\epsilon\gamma\alpha\nu\omega$, and literally means "covered writing"
\cite{kahn1996history}. Unlike cryptography where the aim is to make a
message unreadable, the aim in steganography is to make a message
undetectable \cite{anderson1998limits}. Steganography is therefore
often more useful than cryptography, or especially useful if used in
conjunction, as it allows for discrete messages to be sent in plain
sight: whereas a cryptographically encoded message may attract
attention. Although steganography is often associated with embedding
messages or hidden images within a cover image, there is no
requirement for a visual medium in steganography, merely a hidden
message.

An ancient form of steganography existed in Greece, where one would
engrave a message on a timber tablet, then cover the surface with wax.
The resulting tablet would appear blank, but if the wax were scraped
off the message would be revealed \cite{johnson1998exploring}. Other
popular methods through history were various schemes involving
invisible ink \cite{kahn1996history}. The field has come a long way
since then, especially since the development of the digital age.

In modern steganography, there are three separate types, each with a
separate purpose: information hiding, watermarking and fingerprinting
\cite{hamid2012image}. Information hiding is the classical application
for steganography described above, where a hidden message is to be
passed to a recipient \cite{kahn1996history}. Watermarking it commonly
used by publishers and broadcasters to encrypt copyright marks into
digital media, including images, film, recordings and books
\cite{anderson1998limits}. Finally, in fingerprinting a specific
identity is associated with a copy of a given media. Fingerprinting
steganography can be used when distributing sensitive information,
such as intellectual property, to later determine which copy was
leaked, and therefore identify the sharer. From herein, the
information hiding type of steganography is considered.

There are three different criteria by which the performance of
steganography can be measured \cite{li2011survey}: *security*, also
known as robustness \cite{hamid2012image}, describes the ability for
the message to survive a deliberate attempt to corrupt any hidden
information within the message; *capacity* describes the ratio of the
amount of information that can be contained against the required size
of the hiding medium; and *imperceptibility*, also known as
undetectability \cite{hamid2012image}, is the property that the
encoded message appears to be a regular message. Often a trade-off is
required, whereby increasing the performance in one of these three
criteria reduces the performance in the other two
\cite{hamid2012image}.

The most common method for steganographically embedding a message is
to do so within an image \cite{li2011survey}. One such method is
called least-significant bit (LSB) based steganography. In this
method, data is embedded in the LSB of given pixels. Doing so has a
minimal effect on the image, and allows a message to be embedded. This
method allows for a relatively high capacity, and can give a good
level of imperceptibility for appropriate cover images, but has a low
security, and is susceptible to attacks.

An alternative method for steganographically embedding a message
within an image is the transform domain technique
\cite{hamid2012image}. In this method, the data is stored in an
alternative domain, which may be the Laplace domain, the discrete
cosine transform domain, the wavelet transform domain, or others
\cite{li2011survey}. As opposed to LSB techniques, transform domain
techniques are far more secure and robust, and able to survive some
lossy compression or other distortions, although at the expense of
having a far lower capacity \cite{hamid2012image}.

An alternate form of steganography, known as linguistic steganography,
seeks to conceal a message as innocuous text
\cite{chapman1997hiding,atallah2003natural}. Although linguistic
steganography is one of the oldest forms of steganography
\cite{bennett2004linguistic}, it is still a studied field in the
modern, digital age \cite{bergmair2007comprehensive}. Linguistic
steganography therefore includes both old methods, such as null
ciphers, and modern techniques for large-scale automated linguistic
steganography \cite{chapman2001practical}.

* Natural Language Watermarking and Tamperproofing

In /Natural language watermarking and tamperproofing/, Atallah /et
al./ \cite{atallah2003natural} propose a method for steganographically
embedding watermarks or fingerprints into plain text. Modern natural
language steganography methods attempt to apply steganographic methods
to text, without relying on modifying specific formatting parameters,
such as LaTeX or HTML. In this work, authors continue from previous
work \cite{atallah2001natural}, and use a similar base concept. The
concept depends on fundamental redundancies in language structure and
semantics.  These two separate areas of redundancy are exploited
within this text to embed the hidden message.

Firstly, a sentence can be restructured, and maintain the exact same
meaning \cite{bennett2004linguistic}. For example, "Ashley submitted a
perfect assignment" and "A perfect assignment was submitted by
Ashley."  In these sentenced, the order of the subject and object have
been reversed, however the meaning has not been changed. Thus if the
meaning of a sentence can be extracted, and can be reconstructed in a
number of different, but mathematically defined ways, the specific
reconstruction method can be used to encode extra information. This is
known at the syntactic marking scheme.

Secondly, the semantics of parts of a sentence, or sentences within a
paragraph can be changed, but result in the same overall meaning
\cite{atallah2003natural}. For example, information can be /grafted/
from one sentence to another. Grafting "The perfect assignment
received an HD grade" into "Ashley submitted a perfect assignment"
might form "Ashley submitted a perfect assignment, which received an
HD grade."  Another option is to /prune/ redundant data, that might be
shared and repeated between nearby sentences; or to /substitute/ data
with equivalent data.

Unlike other linguistic steganography methods, these methods allow a
hidden message, such as a fingerprint or watermark, to be embedded
within a text, without modifying the overall meaning of the text. In
addition, the use of the two methods in conjunction allows the
document to become self-error-checking, thereby any tampering becomes
evident.

The algorithm would first step through and modify the semantic meaning
using grafting, pruning and substitution, encoding the hidden message
within. The message was encoded using the sentence text-meaning
representation (TMR) tree \cite{nirenburg2004ontological}. TMR
provides a method by which a sentence can be encoded and represented
by its pure meaning, as opposed to its syntactic structure. A typical
sentence can encode up to a byte in the TMR, however in this text only
four bits are encoded per sentence, allowing for the modified
sentences to be /marked/.

After this first pass, the syntactic pass was also made in order to
allow for tampering detection. The syntax encoding method used was the
syntax tree. By modifying the syntax of a sentence without modifying
the TMR, both the sentence meaning and the watermark encoding are
maintained.  The syntax tree was modified in such a way to encode the
a signature of the document itself. In this way, tampering becomes
immediately evident based on a syntactic change in the document.

* Steganographic example

An example stego-image is seen in figure [[fig:stego2]]. This was produced
using the [[manytools.org]] steganography tool \cite{manytoolsSteg}. The
raw LaTeX code used do generate \sect[[Natural Language Watermarking and
Tamperproofing]] was entered into the /Hide message/ field, and the
image in figure [[fig:stego1]] was uploaded to the /Host-image/ area.

#+BEGIN_HTML
<table class="side-by-side-figure">
  <tr>
    <td>
#+END_HTML
#+NAME: fig:stego1
#+CAPTION: Original image
[[file:{{ site.url }}/assets/steganography/roboA4small.png]]
#+BEGIN_HTML
    </td>
    <td>
#+END_HTML
#+NAME: fig:stego2
#+CAPTION: Stego-image
[[file:{{ site.url }}/assets/steganography/roboA4small_enc.png]]
#+BEGIN_HTML
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
#+END_HTML

#+BEGIN_HTML
<table class="side-by-side-figure" style="width:100%;">
  <tr>
    <td>
#+END_HTML
#+NAME: fig:stego3
#+CAPTION: Original image shoulder zoom
#+ATTR_HTML: :width 500px
[[file:{{ site.url }}/assets/steganography/roboA4small_inset.png]]
#+BEGIN_HTML
    </td>
    <td>
#+END_HTML
#+NAME: fig:stego4
#+CAPTION: Stego-image shoulder zoom
#+ATTR_HTML: :width 500px
[[file:{{ site.url }}/assets/steganography/roboA4small_enc_inset.png]]
#+BEGIN_HTML
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
#+END_HTML

A number of distortions to the host image are noted in the stego-image
in figure [[fig:stego2]]. Most obviously is that the transparent background has
been destroyed and is in fact black in the stego-image. The shoulder
close ups in figure [[fig:stego4]] also reveal more subtle distortions, directly
due to the data encoding. The data revealed upon decoding by uploading
the image to the same tool is given below.

{% gist a96138017e2936bc2c2c %}

#+BIBLIOGRAPHY: 2015-05-04-Steganography ieeetr option:-nobibsource limit:t
